 texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@setfilename pdb.info
@settitle GIMP Procedural Database Documentation
@setchapternewpage on

@ifinfo
This file describes the GIMP procedural database.

Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 1997 by Spencer Kimball and Peter Mattis.  All rights reserved.

We distribute @sc{gimp} under the terms of the GNU General Public
License, Version 2, which we have included with this release
in the file named @file{COPYING}, and in the ``Copying'' section of
this manual.
As indicated in the License,
we provide the program
``as is'' without warranty
of any kind, either expressed or implied, without even the implied
warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
@end ifinfo

@c @iftex
@c @hyphenation{Project-Header Project-Author Project-Date Project-Version}
@c @end iftex

@titlepage
@center @titlefont{GIMP: Procedural Database Documentation}
@sp 2
@center Spencer Kimball and Peter Mattis

@center eXperimental Computing Facility
@center The University of California at Berkeley
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 1995, 1996, 1997 Spencer Kimball and Peter Mattis.

We distribute @sc{gimp} under the terms of the GNU General Public
License, Version 2, which we have included with this release
in the file named @file{COPYING}, and in the appendix to this manual.  As indicated in the License,
we provide the program
``as is'' without warranty
of any kind, either expressed or implied, without even the implied
warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
@end titlepage

@dircategory Elite Image Manipulation
@direntry
* GIMP!: (pdb).		The GIMP procedural database.
@end direntry

@node    Top, , (dir), (dir)

@ifinfo
This document is the procedural database documentation for @sc{The
GIMP}, the GNU Image Manipulation Program. The documentation is
automatically generated from help strings embedded in the code. It is
intended to provide information about the functionality, arguments and
return values for procedures in the procedural database.
@end ifinfo

@menu
* Commands::     All commands.
@end menu

@node    Commands, , Top, Top
@c 1
@chapter Commands

@include pdb_dump.texi

@bye
