                   ------------------------------
                   GNU Image Manipulation Program
                      2.99 Development Branch
                   ------------------------------

This is an unstable development release, an intermediate state on the
way to the next stable release: GIMP 3. GIMP 2.99 may or may not do what
you expect. Save your work early and often. If you want a stable
version, please use GIMP 2.10 instead.

If you think you found a bug in this version, please make sure that it
hasn't been reported earlier and that it is not just new stuff that is
still being worked on and obviously not quite finished yet.

If you want to hack on GIMP, please read the file HACKING. For
detailed installation instructions, see the file INSTALL.


1. Web Resources
================

GIMP's home page is at:

	https://www.gimp.org/

Please be sure to visit this site for information, documentation,
tutorials, news, etc.  All things GIMP-ish are available from there.

The automated plug-in registry is located at:

	https://registry.gimp.org/

There you can get the latest versions of plug-ins, using a convenient
forms-based interface.

The latest version of GIMP can be found at:

	https://www.gimp.org/downloads/


2. Mailing Lists
================

We have several mailing lists dedicated to GIMP user and development
discussion.  There is more info at

	https://www.gimp.org/mail_lists.html

Links to several archives of the mailing lists are included in that page.

Gimp-user-list is a mailing list dedicated to user problems, hints and
tips, discussion of cool effects, etc.  Gimp-developer-list is oriented
to GIMP core and plug-in developers.  Gimp-gui-list is for discussing
about GIMP interface to improve user experience. Most people will only
want to be subscribed to gimp-user-list. If you want to help develop
GIMP, the gimp-developer mailing list is a good starting point; if you
want to help with GUI design, the gimp-gui list is where you want to
subscribe.


3. IRC
======

And finally, for the real junkies, there is an IRC channel devoted to
GIMP. On GIMPNet (a private free software oriented network) there is
#gimp.  Many of the developers hang out there.  Some of the GIMPNet
servers are:

	irc.gimp.org:6667
	irc.us.gimp.org:6667
	irc.eu.gimp.org:6667


4. Customizing
==============

The look of GIMP's interface can be customized like any other GTK+ app
by editing files in `${XDG_CONFIG_HOME}/gtk-3.0/` (settings.ini and
gtk.css in particular) or by using "themes" (ready-made customizations).
Additionally, GIMP reads `${XDG_CONFIG_HOME}/GIMP/2.99/gimp.css` so you
can have settings that only apply to GIMP.

Included is a set of keybindings similar to those in Adobe Photoshop.
You can find them in the ps-menurc file.  To use them, copy this file
to `${XDG_CONFIG_HOME}/GIMP/2.99/menurc`. You can also manually change
the keybindings to any of your choice by editing:
`${XDG_CONFIG_HOME}/GIMP/2.99/menurc`.


Have fun,

  Spencer Kimball
  Peter Mattis
  Federico Mena
  Manish Singh
  Sven Neumann
  Michael Natterer
  Dave Neary
  Martin Nordholts
